# 2014

## TOC

- [2014-01](#2014-01)
- [2014-11](#2014-11)
- [2014-12](#2014-12)

## 2014-01

<details>

<summary>2014-01-26 11:16:00 - Forensic Statistics and Justice: the Leiden Consensus</summary>

- *Ian Freckelton, Richard D. Gill, Johannes F. Nijboer*

- `1401.6640v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/1401.6640v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1401.6640v1)

> Between 26 and 29 April 2011 a four-day interdisciplinary workshop "Science meets Law" was held at the Lorentz Center (University of Leiden, NL). It was organised by the Lorentz Center in collaboration with the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study in the Humanities and Social Sciences ("NIAS", Wassenaar, NL). The programme was prepared by Richard Gill and Johannes F. Nijboer and connected to Richard Gill's 2010-2011 stay at NIAS as Distinguished Lorentz Fellow.   This document was prepared by three of us and represents our personal synthesis of the discussions which took place during the meeting. Comments are welcome.

</details>


## 2014-11

<details>

<summary>2014-11-28 02:32:28 - Assessing stochastic algorithms for large scale nonlinear least squares problems using extremal probabilities of linear combinations of gamma random variables</summary>

- *Farbod Roosta-Khorasani, Gábor J. Székely, Uri Ascher*

- `1404.0122v2` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/1404.0122v2) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1404.0122v2)

> This article considers stochastic algorithms for efficiently solving a class of large scale non-linear least squares (NLS) problems which frequently arise in applications. We propose eight variants of a practical randomized algorithm where the uncertainties in the major stochastic steps are quantified. Such stochastic steps involve approximating the NLS objective function using Monte-Carlo methods, and this is equivalent to the estimation of the trace of corresponding symmetric positive semi-definite (SPSD) matrices. For the latter, we prove tight necessary and sufficient conditions on the sample size (which translates to cost) to satisfy the prescribed probabilistic accuracy. We show that these conditions are practically computable and yield small sample sizes. They are then incorporated in our stochastic algorithm to quantify the uncertainty in each randomized step. The bounds we use are applications of more general results regarding extremal tail probabilities of linear combinations of gamma distributed random variables. We derive and prove new results concerning the maximal and minimal tail probabilities of such linear combinations, which can be considered independently of the rest of this paper.

</details>


## 2014-12

<details>

<summary>2014-12-09 14:10:01 - BayesDccGarch - An Implementation of Multivariate GARCH DCC Models</summary>

- *Jose A. Fioruci, Ricardo S. Ehlers, Francisco Louzada*

- `1412.2967v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/1412.2967v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1412.2967v1)

> Multivariate GARCH models are important tools to describe the dynamics of multivariate times series of financial returns. Nevertheless, these models have been much less used in practice due to the lack of reliable software. This paper describes the {\tt R} package {\bf BayesDccGarch} which was developed to implement recently proposed inference procedures to estimate and compare multivariate GARCH models allowing for asymmetric and heavy tailed distributions.

</details>

