# 2020

## TOC

- [2020-03](#2020-03)
- [2020-04](#2020-04)
- [2020-05](#2020-05)
- [2020-06](#2020-06)
- [2020-08](#2020-08)
- [2020-09](#2020-09)
- [2020-10](#2020-10)
- [2020-11](#2020-11)

## 2020-03

<details>

<summary>2020-03-10 00:43:20 - A tail dependence-based MST and their topological indicators in modelling systemic risk in the European insurance sector</summary>

- *Anna Denkowska, Stanisław Wanat*

- `2001.06567v2` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2001.06567v2) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2001.06567v2)

> In the present work we analyse the dynamics of indirect connections between insurance companies that result from market price channels. In our analysis we assume that the stock quotations of insurance companies reflect market sentiments which constitute a very important systemic risk factor. Interlinkages between insurers and their dynamics have a direct impact on systemic risk contagion in the insurance sector. We propose herein a new hybrid approach to the analysis of interlinkages dynamics based on combining the copula-DCC-GARCH model and Minimum Spanning Trees (MST). Using the copula-DCC-GARCH model we determine the tail dependence coefficients. Then, for each analysed period we construct MST based on these coefficients. The dynamics is analysed by means of time series of selected topological indicators of the MSTs in the years 2005-2019. Our empirical results show the usefulness of the proposed approach to the analysis of systemic risk in the insurance sector. The times series obtained from the proposed hybrid approach reflect the phenomena occurring on the market. The analysed MST topological indicators can be considered as systemic risk predictors.

</details>


## 2020-04

<details>

<summary>2020-04-23 05:57:47 - LRTD: Long-Range Temporal Dependency based Active Learning for Surgical Workflow Recognition</summary>

- *Xueying Shi, Yueming Jin, Qi Dou, Pheng-Ann Heng*

- `2004.09845v2` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2004.09845v2) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2004.09845v2)

> Automatic surgical workflow recognition in video is an essentially fundamental yet challenging problem for developing computer-assisted and robotic-assisted surgery. Existing approaches with deep learning have achieved remarkable performance on analysis of surgical videos, however, heavily relying on large-scale labelled datasets. Unfortunately, the annotation is not often available in abundance, because it requires the domain knowledge of surgeons. In this paper, we propose a novel active learning method for cost-effective surgical video analysis. Specifically, we propose a non-local recurrent convolutional network (NL-RCNet), which introduces non-local block to capture the long-range temporal dependency (LRTD) among continuous frames. We then formulate an intra-clip dependency score to represent the overall dependency within this clip. By ranking scores among clips in unlabelled data pool, we select the clips with weak dependencies to annotate, which indicates the most informative ones to better benefit network training. We validate our approach on a large surgical video dataset (Cholec80) by performing surgical workflow recognition task. By using our LRTD based selection strategy, we can outperform other state-of-the-art active learning methods. Using only up to 50% of samples, our approach can exceed the performance of full-data training.

</details>


## 2020-05

<details>

<summary>2020-05-05 09:56:40 - Stocks Vote with Their Feet: Can a Piece of Paper Document Fights the COVID-19 Pandemic?</summary>

- *J. Su, Q. Zhong*

- `2005.02034v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2005.02034v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2005.02034v1)

> Assessing the trend of the COVID-19 pandemic and policy effectiveness is essential for both policymakers and stock investors, but challenging because the crisis has unfolded with extreme speed and the previous index was not suitable for measuring policy effectiveness for COVID-19. This paper builds an index of policy effectiveness on fighting COVID-19 pandemic, whose building method is similar to the index of Policy Uncertainty, based on province-level paper documents released in China from Jan.1st to Apr.16th of 2020. This paper also studies the relationships among COVID-19 daily confirmed cases, stock market volatility, and document-based policy effectiveness in China. This paper uses the DCC-GARCH model to fit conditional covariance's change rule of multi-series. This paper finally tests four hypotheses, about the time-space difference of policy effectiveness and its overflow effect both on the COVID-19 pandemic and stock market. Through the inner interaction of this triad structure, we can bring forward more specific and scientific suggestions to maintain stability in the stock market at such exceptional times.

</details>


## 2020-06

<details>

<summary>2020-06-02 07:08:58 - Image Super-Resolution with Cross-Scale Non-Local Attention and Exhaustive Self-Exemplars Mining</summary>

- *Yiqun Mei, Yuchen Fan, Yuqian Zhou, Lichao Huang, Thomas S. Huang, Humphrey Shi*

- `2006.01424v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2006.01424v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2006.01424v1)

> Deep convolution-based single image super-resolution (SISR) networks embrace the benefits of learning from large-scale external image resources for local recovery, yet most existing works have ignored the long-range feature-wise similarities in natural images. Some recent works have successfully leveraged this intrinsic feature correlation by exploring non-local attention modules. However, none of the current deep models have studied another inherent property of images: cross-scale feature correlation. In this paper, we propose the first Cross-Scale Non-Local (CS-NL) attention module with integration into a recurrent neural network. By combining the new CS-NL prior with local and in-scale non-local priors in a powerful recurrent fusion cell, we can find more cross-scale feature correlations within a single low-resolution (LR) image. The performance of SISR is significantly improved by exhaustively integrating all possible priors. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed CS-NL module by setting new state-of-the-arts on multiple SISR benchmarks.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2020-06-15 02:35:32 - Extreme Gradient Boosted Multi-label Trees for Dynamic Classifier Chains</summary>

- *Bohlender, Simon, Loza Mencia, Eneldo, Kulessa, Moritz*

- `2006.08094v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2006.08094v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2006.08094v1)

> Classifier chains is a key technique in multi-label classification, since it allows to consider label dependencies effectively. However, the classifiers are aligned according to a static order of the labels. In the concept of dynamic classifier chains (DCC) the label ordering is chosen for each prediction dynamically depending on the respective instance at hand. We combine this concept with the boosting of extreme gradient boosted trees (XGBoost), an effective and scalable state-of-the-art technique, and incorporate DCC in a fast multi-label extension of XGBoost which we make publicly available. As only positive labels have to be predicted and these are usually only few, the training costs can be further substantially reduced. Moreover, as experiments on eleven datasets show, the length of the chain allows for a more control over the usage of previous predictions and hence over the measure one want to optimize.

</details>


## 2020-08

<details>

<summary>2020-08-04 19:09:54 - Nonlocal-interaction equation on graphs: gradient flow structure and continuum limit</summary>

- *Antonio Esposito, Francesco S. Patacchini, André Schlichting, Dejan Slepčev*

- `1912.09834v2` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/1912.09834v2) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1912.09834v2)

> We consider dynamics driven by interaction energies on graphs. We introduce graph analogues of the continuum nonlocal-interaction equation and interpret them as gradient flows with respect to a graph Wasserstein distance. The particular Wasserstein distance we consider arises from the graph analogue of the Benamou-Brenier formulation where the graph continuity equation uses an upwind interpolation to define the density along the edges. While this approach has both theoretical and computational advantages, the resulting distance is only a quasi-metric. We investigate this quasi-metric both on graphs and on more general structures where the set of "vertices" is an arbitrary positive measure. We call the resulting gradient flow of the nonlocal-interaction energy the nonlocal nonlocal-interaction equation (NL$^2$IE). We develop the existence theory for the solutions of the NL$^2$IE as curves of maximal slope with respect to the upwind Wasserstein quasi-metric. Furthermore, we show that the solutions of the NL$^2$IE on graphs converge as the empirical measures of the set of vertices converge weakly, which establishes a valuable discrete-to-continuum convergence result.

</details>


## 2020-09

<details>

<summary>2020-09-04 07:57:35 - Enhancing Discrete Choice Models with Representation Learning</summary>

- *Brian Sifringer, Virginie Lurkin, Alexandre Alahi*

- `1812.09747v3` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/1812.09747v3) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1812.09747v3)

> In discrete choice modeling (DCM), model misspecifications may lead to limited predictability and biased parameter estimates. In this paper, we propose a new approach for estimating choice models in which we divide the systematic part of the utility specification into (i) a knowledge-driven part, and (ii) a data-driven one, which learns a new representation from available explanatory variables. Our formulation increases the predictive power of standard DCM without sacrificing their interpretability. We show the effectiveness of our formulation by augmenting the utility specification of the Multinomial Logit (MNL) and the Nested Logit (NL) models with a new non-linear representation arising from a Neural Network (NN), leading to new choice models referred to as the Learning Multinomial Logit (L-MNL) and Learning Nested Logit (L-NL) models. Using multiple publicly available datasets based on revealed and stated preferences, we show that our models outperform the traditional ones, both in terms of predictive performance and accuracy in parameter estimation. All source code of the models are shared to promote open science.

</details>


## 2020-10

<details>

<summary>2020-10-30 03:33:49 - Remarks on Optimal Scores for Speaker Recognition</summary>

- *Dong Wang*

- `2010.04862v2` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2010.04862v2) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2010.04862v2)

> In this article, we first establish the theory of optimal scores for speaker recognition. Our analysis shows that the minimum Bayes risk (MBR) decisions for both the speaker identification and speaker verification tasks can be based on a normalized likelihood (NL). When the underlying generative model is a linear Gaussian, the NL score is mathematically equivalent to the PLDA likelihood ratio, and the empirical scores based on cosine distance and Euclidean distance can be seen as approximations of this linear Gaussian NL score under some conditions. We discuss a number of properties of the NL score and perform a simple simulation experiment to demonstrate the properties of the NL score.

</details>


## 2020-11

<details>

<summary>2020-11-04 20:02:43 - Statistical Guarantees for Transformation Based Models with Applications to Implicit Variational Inference</summary>

- *Sean Plummer, Shuang Zhou, Anirban Bhattacharya, David Dunson, Debdeep Pati*

- `2010.14056v2` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2010.14056v2) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2010.14056v2)

> Transformation-based methods have been an attractive approach in non-parametric inference for problems such as unconditional and conditional density estimation due to their unique hierarchical structure that models the data as flexible transformation of a set of common latent variables. More recently, transformation-based models have been used in variational inference (VI) to construct flexible implicit families of variational distributions. However, their use in both non-parametric inference and variational inference lacks theoretical justification. We provide theoretical justification for the use of non-linear latent variable models (NL-LVMs) in non-parametric inference by showing that the support of the transformation induced prior in the space of densities is sufficiently large in the $L_1$ sense. We also show that, when a Gaussian process (GP) prior is placed on the transformation function, the posterior concentrates at the optimal rate up to a logarithmic factor. Adopting the flexibility demonstrated in the non-parametric setting, we use the NL-LVM to construct an implicit family of variational distributions, deemed GP-IVI. We delineate sufficient conditions under which GP-IVI achieves optimal risk bounds and approximates the true posterior in the sense of the Kullback-Leibler divergence. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work on providing theoretical guarantees for implicit variational inference.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2020-11-11 10:25:37 - NL-LinkNet: Toward Lighter but More Accurate Road Extraction with Non-Local Operations</summary>

- *Yooseung Wang, Junghoon Seo, Taegyun Jeon*

- `1908.08223v3` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/1908.08223v3) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1908.08223v3)

> Road extraction from very high resolution satellite (VHR) images is one of the most important topics in the field of remote sensing. In this paper, we propose an efficient Non-Local LinkNet with non-local blocks that can grasp relations between global features. This enables each spatial feature point to refer to all other contextual information and results in more accurate road segmentation. In detail, our single model without any post-processing like CRF refinement, performed better than any other published state-of-the-art ensemble model in the official DeepGlobe Challenge. Moreover, our NL-LinkNet beat the D-LinkNet, the winner of the DeepGlobe challenge, with 43 \% less parameters, less giga floating-point operations per seconds (GFLOPs) and shorter training convergence time. We also present empirical analyses on the proper usages of non-local blocks for the baseline model.

</details>

