# 2022

## TOC

- [2022-05](#2022-05)
- [2022-06](#2022-06)
- [2022-07](#2022-07)
- [2022-08](#2022-08)
- [2022-09](#2022-09)

## 2022-05

<details>

<summary>2022-05-19 13:29:31 - Spherical Perspective on Learning with Normalization Layers</summary>

- *Simon Roburin, Yann de Mont-Marin, Andrei Bursuc, Renaud Marlet, Patrick Pérez, Mathieu Aubry*

- `2006.13382v3` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2006.13382v3) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2006.13382v3)

> Normalization Layers (NLs) are widely used in modern deep-learning architectures. Despite their apparent simplicity, their effect on optimization is not yet fully understood. This paper introduces a spherical framework to study the optimization of neural networks with NLs from a geometric perspective. Concretely, the radial invariance of groups of parameters, such as filters for convolutional neural networks, allows to translate the optimization steps on the $L_2$ unit hypersphere. This formulation and the associated geometric interpretation shed new light on the training dynamics. Firstly, the first effective learning rate expression of Adam is derived. Then the demonstration that, in the presence of NLs, performing Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) alone is actually equivalent to a variant of Adam constrained to the unit hypersphere, stems from the framework. Finally, this analysis outlines phenomena that previous variants of Adam act on and their importance in the optimization process are experimentally validated.

</details>


## 2022-06

<details>

<summary>2022-06-30 06:09:06 - Unique futures in China: studys on volatility spillover effects of ferrous metal futures</summary>

- *Tingting Cao, Weiqing Sun, Cuiping Sun, Lin Hao*

- `2206.15039v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2206.15039v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2206.15039v1)

> Ferrous metal futures have become unique commodity futures with Chinese characteristics. Due to the late listing time, it has received less attention from scholars. Our research focuses on the volatility spillover effects, defined as the intensity of price volatility in financial instruments. We use DCC-GARCH, BEKK-GARCH, and DY(2012) index methods to conduct empirical tests on the volatility spillover effects of the Chinese ferrous metal futures market and other parts of the Chinese commodity futures market, as well as industries related to the steel industry chain in stock markets. It can be seen that there is a close volatility spillover relationship between ferrous metal futures and nonferrous metal futures. Energy futures and chemical futures have a significant transmission effect on the fluctuations of ferrous metals. In addition, ferrous metal futures have a significant spillover effect on the stock index of the steel industry, real estate industry, building materials industry, machinery equipment industry, and household appliance industry. Studying the volatility spillover effect of the ferrous metal futures market can reveal the operating laws of this field and provide ideas and theoretical references for investors to hedge their risks. It shows that the ferrous metal futures market has an essential role as a "barometer" for the Chinese commodity futures market and the stock market.

</details>


## 2022-07

<details>

<summary>2022-07-10 16:20:01 - On the Representation of Causal Background Knowledge and its Applications in Causal Inference</summary>

- *Zhuangyan Fang, Ruiqi Zhao, Yue Liu, Yangbo He*

- `2207.05067v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2207.05067v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2207.05067v1)

> Causal background knowledge about the existence or the absence of causal edges and paths is frequently encountered in observational studies. The shared directed edges and links of a subclass of Markov equivalent DAGs refined due to background knowledge can be represented by a causal maximally partially directed acyclic graph (MPDAG). In this paper, we first provide a sound and complete graphical characterization of causal MPDAGs and give a minimal representation of a causal MPDAG. Then, we introduce a novel representation called direct causal clause (DCC) to represent all types of causal background knowledge in a unified form. Using DCCs, we study the consistency and equivalency of causal background knowledge and show that any causal background knowledge set can be equivalently decomposed into a causal MPDAG plus a minimal residual set of DCCs. Polynomial-time algorithms are also provided for checking the consistency, equivalency, and finding the decomposed MPDAG and residual DCCs. Finally, with causal background knowledge, we prove a sufficient and necessary condition to identify causal effects and surprisingly find that the identifiability of causal effects only depends on the decomposed MPDAG. We also develop a local IDA-type algorithm to estimate the possible values of an unidentifiable effect. Simulations suggest that causal background knowledge can significantly improve the identifiability of causal effects.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2022-07-27 10:04:23 - Rethinking Efficacy of Softmax for Lightweight Non-Local Neural Networks</summary>

- *Yooshin Cho, Youngsoo Kim, Hanbyel Cho, Jaesung Ahn, Hyeong Gwon Hong, Junmo Kim*

- `2207.13423v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2207.13423v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2207.13423v1)

> Non-local (NL) block is a popular module that demonstrates the capability to model global contexts. However, NL block generally has heavy computation and memory costs, so it is impractical to apply the block to high-resolution feature maps. In this paper, to investigate the efficacy of NL block, we empirically analyze if the magnitude and direction of input feature vectors properly affect the attention between vectors. The results show the inefficacy of softmax operation which is generally used to normalize the attention map of the NL block. Attention maps normalized with softmax operation highly rely upon magnitude of key vectors, and performance is degenerated if the magnitude information is removed. By replacing softmax operation with the scaling factor, we demonstrate improved performance on CIFAR-10, CIFAR-100, and Tiny-ImageNet. In Addition, our method shows robustness to embedding channel reduction and embedding weight initialization. Notably, our method makes multi-head attention employable without additional computational cost.

</details>


## 2022-08

<details>

<summary>2022-08-19 04:51:06 - Understanding Volatility Spillover Relationship Among G7 Nations And India During Covid-19</summary>

- *Avik Das, Dr. Devanjali Nandi Das*

- `2208.09148v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2208.09148v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2208.09148v1)

> Purpose: In the context of a COVID pandemic in 2020-21, this paper attempts to capture the interconnectedness and volatility transmission dynamics. The nature of change in volatility spillover effects and time-varying conditional correlation among the G7 countries and India is investigated. Methodology: To assess the volatility spillover effects, the bivariate BEKK and t- DCC (1,1) GARCH (1,1) models have been used. Our research shows how the dynamics of volatility spillover between India and the G7 countries shift before and during COVID-19. Findings: The findings reveal that the extent of volatility spillover has altered during COVID compared to the pre-COVID environment. During this pandemic, a sharp increase in conditional correlation indicates an increase in systematic risk between countries. Originality: The study contributes to a better understanding of the dynamics of volatility spillover between G7 countries and India. Asset managers and foreign corporations can use the changing spillover dynamics to improve investment decisions and implement effective hedging measures to protect their interests. Furthermore, this research will assist financial regulators in assessing market risk in the future owing to crises like as COVID-19.

</details>


## 2022-09

<details>

<summary>2022-09-06 18:04:13 - Identifying the Effect of Parenthood on Labor Force Participation: A Gender Comparison</summary>

- *Seyyed Ali Zeytoon Nejad Moosavian*

- `2209.02743v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2209.02743v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2209.02743v1)

> Identifying the factors that influence labor force participation could elucidate how individuals arrive at their labor supply decisions, whose understanding is, in turn, of crucial importance in analyzing how the supply side of the labor market functions. This paper investigates the effect of parenthood status on Labor Force Participation (LFP) decisions using an individual-level fixed-effects identification strategy. The differences across individuals and over time in having or not having children as well as being or not being in the labor force provide the variation needed to assess the association between individuals' LFP behavior and parenthood. Parenthood could have different impacts on mothers than it would on fathers. In order to look at the causal effect of maternity and paternity on LFP separately, the data is disaggregated by gender. To this end, the effect of a change in the parenthood status can be measured using individual-level fixed-effects to account for time-invariant characteristics of individuals becoming a parent. The primary data source used is the National Longitudinal Surveys (NLS). Considering the nature of LFP variable, this paper employs Binary Response Models (BRMs) to estimate LFP equations using individual-level micro data. The findings of the study show that parenthood has a negative overall effect on LFP. However, paternity has a significant positive effect on the likelihood of being in the labor force, whilst maternity has a significant negative impact of LFP. In addition, the results imply that the effect of parenthood on LFP has been fading away over time, regardless of the gender of parents. These two pieces of evidence precisely map onto the theoretical predictions made by the related mainstream economic theories (the traditional neoclassical theory of labor supply as well as Becker's household production model). These results are ...

</details>

<details>

<summary>2022-09-19 09:46:19 - Inference of nonlinear causal effects with GWAS summary data</summary>

- *Ben Dai, Chunlin Li, Haoran Xue, Wei Pan, Xiaotong Shen*

- `2209.08889v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2209.08889v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2209.08889v1)

> Large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have offered an exciting opportunity to discover putative causal genes or risk factors associated with diseases by using SNPs as instrumental variables (IVs). However, conventional approaches assume linear causal relations partly for simplicity and partly for the only availability of GWAS summary data. In this work, we propose a novel model {for transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS)} to incorporate nonlinear relationships across IVs, an exposure, and an outcome, which is robust against violations of the valid IV assumptions and permits the use of GWAS summary data. We decouple the estimation of a marginal causal effect and a nonlinear transformation, where the former is estimated via sliced inverse regression and a sparse instrumental variable regression, and the latter is estimated by a ratio-adjusted inverse regression. On this ground, we propose an inferential procedure. An application of the proposed method to the ADNI gene expression data and the IGAP GWAS summary data identifies 18 causal genes associated with Alzheimer's disease, including APOE and TOMM40, in addition to 7 other genes missed by two-stage least squares considering only linear relationships. Our findings suggest that nonlinear modeling is required to unleash the power of IV regression for identifying potentially nonlinear gene-trait associations. Accompanying this paper is our Python library nl-causal(https://github.com/nl-causal/nonlinear-causal) that implements the proposed method.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2022-09-20 06:30:34 - Inference of nonlinear causal effects with GWAS summary data</summary>

- *Ben Dai, Chunlin Li, Haoran Xue, Wei Pan, Xiaotong Shen*

- `2209.08889v2` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2209.08889v2) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2209.08889v2)

> Large-scale genome-wide association studies (GWAS) have offered an exciting opportunity to discover putative causal genes or risk factors associated with diseases by using SNPs as instrumental variables (IVs). However, conventional approaches assume linear causal relations partly for simplicity and partly for the only availability of GWAS summary data. In this work, we propose a novel model {for transcriptome-wide association studies (TWAS)} to incorporate nonlinear relationships across IVs, an exposure, and an outcome, which is robust against violations of the valid IV assumptions and permits the use of GWAS summary data. We decouple the estimation of a marginal causal effect and a nonlinear transformation, where the former is estimated via sliced inverse regression and a sparse instrumental variable regression, and the latter is estimated by a ratio-adjusted inverse regression. On this ground, we propose an inferential procedure. An application of the proposed method to the ADNI gene expression data and the IGAP GWAS summary data identifies 18 causal genes associated with Alzheimer's disease, including APOE and TOMM40, in addition to 7 other genes missed by two-stage least squares considering only linear relationships. Our findings suggest that nonlinear modeling is required to unleash the power of IV regression for identifying potentially nonlinear gene-trait associations. Accompanying this paper is our Python library nl-causal(https://github.com/nl-causal/nonlinear-causal) that implements the proposed method.

</details>

