# 2023

## TOC

- [2023-01](#2023-01)
- [2023-02](#2023-02)

## 2023-01

<details>

<summary>2023-01-12 15:29:04 - Non-linear correlation analysis in financial markets using hierarchical clustering</summary>

- *J. E. Salgado-Hernández, Manan Vyas*

- `2301.05080v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2301.05080v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.05080v1)

> Distance correlation coefficient (DCC) can be used to identify new associations and correlations between multiple variables. The distance correlation coefficient applies to variables of any dimension, can be used to determine smaller sets of variables that provide equivalent information, is zero only when variables are independent, and is capable of detecting nonlinear associations that are undetectable by the classical Pearson correlation coefficient (PCC). Hence, DCC provides more information than the PCC. We analyze numerous pairs of stocks in S\&P500 database with the distance correlation coefficient and provide an overview of stochastic evolution of financial market states based on these correlation measures obtained using agglomerative clustering.

</details>


## 2023-02

<details>

<summary>2023-02-08 19:11:53 - Sample Complexity Using Infinite Multiview Models</summary>

- *Robert A. Vandermeulen*

- `2302.04292v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/2302.04292v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/2302.04292v1)

> Recent works have demonstrated that the convergence rate of a nonparametric density estimator can be greatly improved by using a low-rank estimator when the target density is a convex combination of separable probability densities with Lipschitz continuous marginals, i.e. a multiview model. However, this assumption is very restrictive and it is not clear to what degree these findings can be extended to general pdfs. This work answers this question by introducing a new way of characterizing a pdf's complexity, the non-negative Lipschitz spectrum (NL-spectrum), which, unlike smoothness properties, can be used to characterize virtually any pdf. Finite sample bounds are presented that are dependent on the target density's NL-spectrum. From this dimension-independent rates of convergence are derived that characterize when an NL-spectrum allows for a fast rate of convergence.

</details>

