# 2005

## TOC

- [2005-04](#2005-04)
- [2005-05](#2005-05)
- [2005-08](#2005-08)
- [2005-09](#2005-09)
- [2005-11](#2005-11)

## 2005-04

<details>

<summary>2005-04-25 12:37:14 - Iterated smoothed bootstrap confidence intervals for population quantiles</summary>

- *Yvonne H. S. Ho, Stephen M. S. Lee*

- `0504516v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0504516v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0504516v1)

> This paper investigates the effects of smoothed bootstrap iterations on coverage probabilities of smoothed bootstrap and bootstrap-t confidence intervals for population quantiles, and establishes the optimal kernel bandwidths at various stages of the smoothing procedures. The conventional smoothed bootstrap and bootstrap-t methods have been known to yield one-sided coverage errors of orders O(n^{-1/2}) and o(n^{-2/3}), respectively, for intervals based on the sample quantile of a random sample of size n. We sharpen the latter result to O(n^{-5/6}) with proper choices of bandwidths at the bootstrapping and Studentization steps. We show further that calibration of the nominal coverage level by means of the iterated bootstrap succeeds in reducing the coverage error of the smoothed bootstrap percentile interval to the order O(n^{-2/3}) and that of the smoothed bootstrap-t interval to O(n^{-58/57}), provided that bandwidths are selected of appropriate orders. Simulation results confirm our asymptotic findings, suggesting that the iterated smoothed bootstrap-t method yields the most accurate coverage. On the other hand, the iterated smoothed bootstrap percentile method interval has the advantage of being shorter and more stable than the bootstrap-t intervals.

</details>


## 2005-05

<details>

<summary>2005-05-30 07:05:37 - Multiprocess parallel antithetic coupling for backward and forward Markov Chain Monte Carlo</summary>

- *Radu V. Craiu, Xiao-Li Meng*

- `0505631v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0505631v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0505631v1)

> Antithetic coupling is a general stratification strategy for reducing Monte Carlo variance without increasing the simulation size. The use of the antithetic principle in the Monte Carlo literature typically employs two strata via antithetic quantile coupling. We demonstrate here that further stratification, obtained by using k>2 (e.g., k=3-10) antithetically coupled variates, can offer substantial additional gain in Monte Carlo efficiency, in terms of both variance and bias. The reason for reduced bias is that antithetically coupled chains can provide a more dispersed search of the state space than multiple independent chains. The emerging area of perfect simulation provides a perfect setting for implementing the k-process parallel antithetic coupling for MCMC because, without antithetic coupling, this class of methods delivers genuine independent draws. Furthermore, antithetic backward coupling provides a very convenient theoretical tool for investigating antithetic forward coupling. However, the generation of k>2 antithetic variates that are negatively associated, that is, they preserve negative correlation under monotone transformations, and extremely antithetic, that is, they are as negatively correlated as possible, is more complicated compared to the case with k=2. In this paper, we establish a theoretical framework for investigating such issues. Among the generating methods that we compare, Latin hypercube sampling and its iterative extension appear to be general-purpose choices, making another direct link between Monte Carlo and quasi Monte Carlo.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2005-05-30 09:57:15 - Extremal quantile regression</summary>

- *Victor Chernozhukov*

- `0505639v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0505639v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0505639v1)

> Quantile regression is an important tool for estimation of conditional quantiles of a response Y given a vector of covariates X. It can be used to measure the effect of covariates not only in the center of a distribution, but also in the upper and lower tails. This paper develops a theory of quantile regression in the tails. Specifically, it obtains the large sample properties of extremal (extreme order and intermediate order) quantile regression estimators for the linear quantile regression model with the tails restricted to the domain of minimum attraction and closed under tail equivalence across regressor values. This modeling setup combines restrictions of extreme value theory with leading homoscedastic and heteroscedastic linear specifications of regression analysis. In large samples, extreme order regression quantiles converge weakly to \argmin functionals of stochastic integrals of Poisson processes that depend on regressors, while intermediate regression quantiles and their functionals converge to normal vectors with variance matrices dependent on the tail parameters and the regressor design.

</details>


## 2005-08

<details>

<summary>2005-08-17 07:06:30 - On the Bahadur representation of sample quantiles for dependent sequences</summary>

- *Wei Biao Wu*

- `0508313v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0508313v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0508313v1)

> We establish the Bahadur representation of sample quantiles for linear and some widely used nonlinear processes. Local fluctuations of empirical processes are discussed. Applications to the trimmed and Winsorized means are given. Our results extend previous ones by establishing sharper bounds under milder conditions and thus provide new insight into the theory of empirical processes for dependent random variables.

</details>


## 2005-09

<details>

<summary>2005-09-19 13:13:52 - Precise finite-sample quantiles of the Jarque-Bera adjusted Lagrange multiplier test</summary>

- *Diethelm Wuertz, Helmut G. Katzgraber*

- `0509423v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0509423v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0509423v1)

> It is well known that the finite-sample null distribution of the Jarque-Bera Lagrange Multiplier (LM) test for normality and its adjusted version (ALM) introduced by Urzua differ considerably from their asymptotic chi^2(2) limit. Here, we present results from Monte Carlo simulations using 10^7 replications which yield very precise numbers for the LM and ALM statistic over a wide range of critical values and sample sizes. This enables a precise implementation of the Jarque-Bera LM and ALM test for finite samples.

</details>


## 2005-11

<details>

<summary>2005-11-21 04:07:16 - Quantile regression in transformation models</summary>

- *Dorota M. Dabrowska*

- `0511508v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0511508v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0511508v1)

> Conditional quantiles provide a natural tool for reporting results from regression analyses based on semiparametric transformation models. We consider their estimation and construction of confidence sets in the presence of censoring.

</details>

