# 2006

## TOC

- [2006-02](#2006-02)
- [2006-05](#2006-05)
- [2006-06](#2006-06)
- [2006-10](#2006-10)
- [2006-11](#2006-11)

## 2006-02

<details>

<summary>2006-02-15 11:50:19 - Consistency of the jackknife-after-bootstrap variance estimator for the bootstrap quantiles of a studentized statistic</summary>

- *S. N. Lahiri*

- `0602328v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0602328v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0602328v1)

> Efron [J. Roy. Statist. Soc. Ser. B 54 (1992) 83--111] proposed a computationally efficient method, called the jackknife-after-bootstrap, for estimating the variance of a bootstrap estimator for independent data. For dependent data, a version of the jackknife-after-bootstrap method has been recently proposed by Lahiri [Econometric Theory 18 (2002) 79--98]. In this paper it is shown that the jackknife-after-bootstrap estimators of the variance of a bootstrap quantile are consistent for both dependent and independent data. Results from a simulation study are also presented.

</details>


## 2006-05

<details>

<summary>2006-05-10 22:23:11 - Optimal rates in the Bahadur-Kiefer representation for GARCH sequences</summary>

- *Rafal Kulik*

- `0605283v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0605283v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0605283v1)

> In this paper we establish the Bahadur-Kiefer representation for sample quantiles of GARCH sequences with optimal rates.

</details>


## 2006-06

<details>

<summary>2006-06-03 16:57:32 - Inference in Perturbation Models, Finite Mixtures and Scan Statistics: The Volume-of-Tube Formula</summary>

- *Ramani S. Pilla, Catherine Loader*

- `0511503v2` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0511503v2) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0511503v2)

> This research creates a general class of "perturbation models" which are described by an underlying "null" model that accounts for most of the structure in data and a perturbation that accounts for possible small localized departures. The perturbation models encompass finite mixture models and spatial scan process. In this article, (1) we propose a new test statistic to detect the presence of perturbation, including the case where the null model contains a set of nuisance parameters, and show that it is equivalent to the likelihood ratio test; (2) we establish that the asymptotic distribution of the test statistic is equivalent to the supremum of a Gaussian random field over a high-dimensional manifold (e.g., curve, surface etc.) with boundaries and singularities; (3) we derive a technique for approximating the quantiles of the test statistic using the Hotelling-Weyl-Naiman "volume-of-tube formula"; and (4) we solve the long-pending problem of testing for the order of a mixture model; in particular, derive the asymptotic null distribution for a general family of mixture models including the multivariate mixtures. The inferential theory developed in this article is applicable for a class of non-regular statistical problems involving loss of identifiability or when some of the parameters are on the boundary of the parametric space.

</details>


## 2006-10

<details>

<summary>2006-10-27 11:38:24 - Student's $t$-test for scale mixture errors</summary>

- *Gábor J. Székely*

- `0610838v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0610838v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0610838v1)

> Generalized t-tests are constructed under weaker than normal conditions. In the first part of this paper we assume only the symmetry (around zero) of the error distribution (i). In the second part we assume that the error distribution is a Gaussian scale mixture (ii). The optimal (smallest) critical values can be computed from generalizations of Student's cumulative distribution function (cdf), $t_n(x)$. The cdf's of the generalized $t$-test statistics are denoted by (i) $t_n^S(x)$ and (ii) $t_n^G(x)$, resp. As the sample size $n\to \infty$ we get the counterparts of the standard normal cdf $\Phi(x)$: (i) $\Phi^S(x):=\operatorname {lim}_{n\to \infty}t_n^S(x)$, and (ii) $\Phi^G(x):=\operatorname {lim}_{n\to \infty}t_n^G(x)$. Explicit formulae are given for the underlying new cdf's. For example $\Phi^G(x)=\Phi(x)$ iff $|x|\ge \sqrt{3}$. Thus the classical 95% confidence interval for the unknown expected value of Gaussian distributions covers the center of symmetry with at least 95% probability for Gaussian scale mixture distributions. On the other hand, the 90% quantile of $\Phi^G$ is $4\sqrt{3}/5=1.385... >\Phi^{-1}(0.9)=1.282...$.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2006-10-27 15:20:29 - Modeling inequality and spread in multiple regression</summary>

- *Rolf Aaberge, Steinar Bjerve, Kjell Doksum*

- `0610852v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0610852v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0610852v1)

> We consider concepts and models for measuring inequality in the distribution of resources with a focus on how inequality varies as a function of covariates. Lorenz introduced a device for measuring inequality in the distribution of income that indicates how much the incomes below the u$^{th}$ quantile fall short of the egalitarian situation where everyone has the same income. Gini introduced a summary measure of inequality that is the average over u of the difference between the Lorenz curve and its values in the egalitarian case. More generally, measures of inequality are useful for other response variables in addition to income, e.g. wealth, sales, dividends, taxes, market share and test scores. In this paper we show that a generalized van Zwet type dispersion ordering for distributions of positive random variables induces an ordering on the Lorenz curve, the Gini coefficient and other measures of inequality. We use this result and distributional orderings based on transformations of distributions to motivate parametric and semiparametric models whose regression coefficients measure effects of covariates on inequality. In particular, we extend a parametric Pareto regression model to a flexible semiparametric regression model and give partial likelihood estimates of the regression coefficients and a baseline distribution that can be used to construct estimates of the various conditional measures of inequality.

</details>


## 2006-11

<details>

<summary>2006-11-09 14:51:23 - Confidence regions for high quantiles of a heavy tailed distribution</summary>

- *Liang Peng, Yongcheng Qi*

- `0611278v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0611278v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0611278v1)

> Estimating high quantiles plays an important role in the context of risk management. This involves extrapolation of an unknown distribution function. In this paper we propose three methods, namely, the normal approximation method, the likelihood ratio method and the data tilting method, to construct confidence regions for high quantiles of a heavy tailed distribution. A simulation study prefers the data tilting method.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2006-11-22 14:05:54 - On the false discovery rates of a frequentist: Asymptotic expansions</summary>

- *Anirban DasGupta, Tonglin Zhang*

- `0611671v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0611671v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0611671v1)

> Consider a testing problem for the null hypothesis $H_0:\theta\in\Theta_0$. The standard frequentist practice is to reject the null hypothesis when the p-value is smaller than a threshold value $\alpha$, usually 0.05. We ask the question how many of the null hypotheses a frequentist rejects are actually true. Precisely, we look at the Bayesian false discovery rate $\delta_n=P_g(\theta\in\Theta_0|p-value<\alpha)$ under a proper prior density $g(\theta)$. This depends on the prior $g$, the sample size $n$, the threshold value $\alpha$ as well as the choice of the test statistic. We show that the Benjamini--Hochberg FDR in fact converges to $\delta_n$ almost surely under $g$ for any fixed $n$. For one-sided null hypotheses, we derive a third order asymptotic expansion for $\delta_n$ in the continuous exponential family when the test statistic is the MLE and in the location family when the test statistic is the sample median. We also briefly mention the expansion in the uniform family when the test statistic is the MLE. The expansions are derived by putting together Edgeworth expansions for the CDF, Cornish--Fisher expansions for the quantile function and various Taylor expansions. Numerical results show that the expansions are very accurate even for a small value of $n$ (e.g., $n=10$). We make many useful conclusions from these expansions, and specifically that the frequentist is not prone to false discoveries except when the prior $g$ is too spiky. The results are illustrated by many examples.

</details>

