# 2007

## TOC

- [2007-01](#2007-01)
- [2007-02](#2007-02)
- [2007-03](#2007-03)
- [2007-05](#2007-05)
- [2007-07](#2007-07)
- [2007-08](#2007-08)
- [2007-10](#2007-10)
- [2007-11](#2007-11)

## 2007-01

<details>

<summary>2007-01-03 10:23:01 - Design Issues for Generalized Linear Models: A Review</summary>

- *André I. Khuri, Bhramar Mukherjee, Bikas K. Sinha, Malay Ghosh*

- `0701088v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0701088v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0701088v1)

> Generalized linear models (GLMs) have been used quite effectively in the modeling of a mean response under nonstandard conditions, where discrete as well as continuous data distributions can be accommodated. The choice of design for a GLM is a very important task in the development and building of an adequate model. However, one major problem that handicaps the construction of a GLM design is its dependence on the unknown parameters of the fitted model. Several approaches have been proposed in the past 25 years to solve this problem. These approaches, however, have provided only partial solutions that apply in only some special cases, and the problem, in general, remains largely unresolved. The purpose of this article is to focus attention on the aforementioned dependence problem. We provide a survey of various existing techniques dealing with the dependence problem. This survey includes discussions concerning locally optimal designs, sequential designs, Bayesian designs and the quantile dispersion graph approach for comparing designs for GLMs.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2007-01-22 10:55:25 - Resampling-based confidence regions and multiple tests for a correlated random vector</summary>

- *Sylvain Arlot, Gilles Blanchard, Etienne Roquain*

- `0701605v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0701605v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0701605v1)

> We derive non-asymptotic confidence regions for the mean of a random vector whose coordinates have an unknown dependence structure. The random vector is supposed to be either Gaussian or to have a symmetric bounded distribution, and we observe $n$ i.i.d copies of it. The confidence regions are built using a data-dependent threshold based on a weighted bootstrap procedure. We consider two approaches, the first based on a concentration approach and the second on a direct boostrapped quantile approach. The first one allows to deal with a very large class of resampling weights while our results for the second are restricted to Rademacher weights. However, the second method seems more accurate in practice. Our results are motivated by multiple testing problems, and we show on simulations that our procedures are better than the Bonferroni procedure (union bound) as soon as the observed vector has sufficiently correlated coordinates.

</details>


## 2007-02

<details>

<summary>2007-02-08 08:48:06 - Hurst exponent estimation of locally self-similar Gaussian processes using sample quantiles</summary>

- *Jean-François Coeurjolly*

- `0506290v2` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0506290v2) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0506290v2)

> This paper is devoted to the introduction of a new class of consistent estimators of the fractal dimension of locally self-similar Gaussian processes. These estimators are based on convex combinations of sample quantiles of discrete variations of a sample path over a discrete grid of the interval $[0,1]$. We derive the almost sure convergence and the asymptotic normality for these estimators. The key-ingredient is a Bahadur representation for sample quantiles of non-linear functions of Gaussians sequences with correlation function decreasing as $k^{-\alpha}L(k)$ for some $\alpha>0$ and some slowly varying function $L(\cdot)$.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2007-02-14 06:23:47 - Ranking the best instances</summary>

- *Stéphan Clémençon, Nicolas Vayatis*

- `0611133v2` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0611133v2) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0611133v2)

> We formulate the local ranking problem in the framework of bipartite ranking where the goal is to focus on the best instances. We propose a methodology based on the construction of real-valued scoring functions. We study empirical risk minimization of dedicated statistics which involve empirical quantiles of the scores. We first state the problem of finding the best instances which can be cast as a classification problem with mass constraint. Next, we develop special performance measures for the local ranking problem which extend the Area Under an ROC Curve (AUC/AROC) criterion and describe the optimal elements of these new criteria. We also highlight the fact that the goal of ranking the best instances cannot be achieved in a stage-wise manner where first, the best instances would be tentatively identified and then a standard AUC criterion could be applied. Eventually, we state preliminary statistical results for the local ranking problem.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2007-02-19 15:56:45 - QQ plots, Random sets and data from a heavy tailed distribution</summary>

- *Bikramjit Das, Sidney I. Resnick*

- `0702551v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0702551v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0702551v1)

> The QQ plot is a commonly used technique for informally deciding whether a univariate random sample of size n comes from a specified distribution F. The QQ plot graphs the sample quantiles against the theoretical quantiles of F and then a visual check is made to see whether or not the points are close to a straight line. For a location and scale family of distributions, the intercept and slope of the straight line provide estimates for the shift and scale parameters of the distribution respectively. Here we consider the set S_n of points forming the QQ plot as a random closed set in R^2. We show that under certain regularity conditions on the distribution F, S_n converges in probability to a closed, non-random set. In the heavy tailed case where 1-F is a regularly varying function, a similar result can be shown but a modification is necessary to provide a statistically sensible result since typically F is not completely known.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2007-02-22 10:51:53 - Discussion paper. Conditional growth charts</summary>

- *Ying Wei, Xuming He*

- `0702634v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0702634v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0702634v1)

> Growth charts are often more informative when they are customized per subject, taking into account prior measurements and possibly other covariates of the subject. We study a global semiparametric quantile regression model that has the ability to estimate conditional quantiles without the usual distributional assumptions. The model can be estimated from longitudinal reference data with irregular measurement times and with some level of robustness against outliers, and it is also flexible for including covariate information. We propose a rank score test for large sample inference on covariates, and develop a new model assessment tool for longitudinal growth data. Our research indicates that the global model has the potential to be a very useful tool in conditional growth chart analysis.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2007-02-23 13:19:12 - Efficient prediction for linear and nonlinear autoregressive models</summary>

- *Ursula U. Müller, Anton Schick, Wolfgang Wefelmeyer*

- `0702701v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0702701v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0702701v1)

> Conditional expectations given past observations in stationary time series are usually estimated directly by kernel estimators, or by plugging in kernel estimators for transition densities. We show that, for linear and nonlinear autoregressive models driven by independent innovations, appropriate smoothed and weighted von Mises statistics of residuals estimate conditional expectations at better parametric rates and are asymptotically efficient. The proof is based on a uniform stochastic expansion for smoothed and weighted von Mises processes of residuals. We consider, in particular, estimation of conditional distribution functions and of conditional quantile functions.

</details>


## 2007-03

<details>

<summary>2007-03-02 09:16:43 - Quantile regression when the covariates are functions</summary>

- *Hervé Cardot, Christophe Crambes, Pascal Sarda*

- `0703056v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0703056v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0703056v1)

> This paper deals with a linear model of regression on quantiles when the explanatory variable takes values in some functional space and the response is scalar. We propose a spline estimator of the functional coefficient that minimizes a penalized L1 type criterion. Then, we study the asymptotic behavior of this estimator. The penalization is of primary importance to get existence and convergence.

</details>


## 2007-05

<details>

<summary>2007-05-31 12:25:47 - Variable Selection Incorporating Prior Constraint Information into Lasso</summary>

- *Shurong Zheng, Guodong Song, Ning-Zhong Shi*

- `0705.4588v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0705.4588v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0705.4588v1)

> We propose the variable selection procedure incorporating prior constraint information into lasso. The proposed procedure combines the sample and prior information, and selects significant variables for responses in a narrower region where the true parameters lie. It increases the efficiency to choose the true model correctly. The proposed procedure can be executed by many constrained quadratic programming methods and the initial estimator can be found by least square or Monte Carlo method. The proposed procedure also enjoys good theoretical properties. Moreover, the proposed procedure is not only used for linear models but also can be used for generalized linear models({\sl GLM}), Cox models, quantile regression models and many others with the help of Wang and Leng (2007)'s LSA, which changes these models as the approximation of linear models. The idea of combining sample and prior constraint information can be also used for other modified lasso procedures. Some examples are used for illustration of the idea of incorporating prior constraint information in variable selection procedures.

</details>


## 2007-07

<details>

<summary>2007-07-31 16:57:51 - Smooth tail index estimation</summary>

- *Samuel Müller, Kaspar Rufibach*

- `0612140v2` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0612140v2) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0612140v2)

> Both parametric distribution functions appearing in extreme value theory - the generalized extreme value distribution and the generalized Pareto distribution - have log-concave densities if the extreme value index gamma is in [-1,0]. Replacing the order statistics in tail index estimators by their corresponding quantiles from the distribution function that is based on the estimated log-concave density leads to novel smooth quantile and tail index estimators. These new estimators aim at estimating the tail index especially in small samples. Acting as a smoother of the empirical distribution function, the log-concave distribution function estimator reduces estimation variability to a much greater extent than it introduces bias. As a consequence, Monte Carlo simulations demonstrate that the smoothed version of the estimators are well superior to their non-smoothed counterparts, in terms of mean squared error.

</details>


## 2007-08

<details>

<summary>2007-08-02 11:00:00 - Comment: Monitoring Networked Applications With Incremental Quantile Estimation</summary>

- *Lorraine Denby, James M. Landwehr, Jean Meloche*

- `0708.0317v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0317v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0708.0317v1)

> Comment: Monitoring Networked Applications With Incremental Quantile Estimation [arXiv:0708.0302]

</details>

<details>

<summary>2007-08-02 12:46:18 - Comment: Monitoring Networked Applications With Incremental Quantile Estimation</summary>

- *Earl Lawrence, George Michailidis, Vijayan N. Nair*

- `0708.0336v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0336v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0708.0336v1)

> Our comments are in two parts. First, we make some observations regarding the methodology in Chambers et al. [arXiv:0708.0302]. Second, we briefly describe another interesting network monitoring problem that arises in the context of assessing quality of service, such as loss rates and delay distributions, in packet-switched networks.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2007-08-02 12:59:51 - Comment: Monitoring Networked Applications With Incremental Quantile Estimation</summary>

- *Bin Yu*

- `0708.0338v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0338v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0708.0338v1)

> Comment: Monitoring Networked Applications With Incremental Quantile Estimation [arXiv:0708.0302]

</details>

<details>

<summary>2007-08-02 13:14:05 - Rejoinder: Monitoring Networked Applications With Incremental Quantile Estimation</summary>

- *John M. Chambers, David A. James, Diane Lambert, Scott Vander Wiel*

- `0708.0339v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0339v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0708.0339v1)

> Rejoinder: Monitoring Networked Applications With Incremental Quantile Estimation [arXiv:0708.0302]

</details>

<details>

<summary>2007-08-02 13:23:09 - Monitoring Networked Applications With Incremental Quantile Estimation</summary>

- *John M. Chambers, David A. James, Diane Lambert, Scott Vander Wiel*

- `0708.0302v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0302v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0708.0302v1)

> Networked applications have software components that reside on different computers. Email, for example, has database, processing, and user interface components that can be distributed across a network and shared by users in different locations or work groups. End-to-end performance and reliability metrics describe the software quality experienced by these groups of users, taking into account all the software components in the pipeline. Each user produces only some of the data needed to understand the quality of the application for the group, so group performance metrics are obtained by combining summary statistics that each end computer periodically (and automatically) sends to a central server. The group quality metrics usually focus on medians and tail quantiles rather than on averages. Distributed quantile estimation is challenging, though, especially when passing large amounts of data around the network solely to compute quality metrics is undesirable. This paper describes an Incremental Quantile (IQ) estimation method that is designed for performance monitoring at arbitrary levels of network aggregation and time resolution when only a limited amount of data can be transferred. Applications to both real and simulated data are provided.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2007-08-03 08:32:52 - Quantile regression with varying coefficients</summary>

- *Mi-Ok Kim*

- `0708.0471v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0708.0471v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0708.0471v1)

> Quantile regression provides a framework for modeling statistical quantities of interest other than the conditional mean. The regression methodology is well developed for linear models, but less so for nonparametric models. We consider conditional quantiles with varying coefficients and propose a methodology for their estimation and assessment using polynomial splines. The proposed estimators are easy to compute via standard quantile regression algorithms and a stepwise knot selection algorithm. The proposed Rao-score-type test that assesses the model against a linear model is also easy to implement. We provide asymptotic results on the convergence of the estimators and the null distribution of the test statistic. Empirical results are also provided, including an application of the methodology to forced expiratory volume (FEV) data.

</details>


## 2007-10

<details>

<summary>2007-10-19 10:10:52 - Regression for partially observed variables and nonparametric quantiles of conditional probabilities</summary>

- *Odile Pons*

- `0710.3666v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0710.3666v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0710.3666v1)

> Efficient estimation under bias sampling, censoring or truncation is a difficult question which has been partially answered and the usual estimators are not always consistent. Several biased designs are considered for models with variables $(X,Y)$ where $Y$ is an indicator and $X$ an explanatory variable, or for continuous variables $(X,Y)$. The identifiability of the models are discussed. New nonparametric estimators of the regression functions and conditional quantiles are proposed.

</details>


## 2007-11

<details>

<summary>2007-11-13 13:27:54 - Functional limit laws for the increments of the quantile process; with applications</summary>

- *Vivian Viallon*

- `0612260v3` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0612260v3) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0612260v3)

> We establish a functional limit law of the logarithm for the increments of the normed quantile process based upon a random sample of size $n\to\infty$. We extend a limit law obtained by Deheuvels and Mason (12), showing that their results hold uniformly over the bandwidth $h$, restricted to vary in $[h'_n,h''_n]$, where $\{h'_n\}_{n\geq1}$ and $\{h''_n\}_{n\geq 1}$ are appropriate non-random sequences. We treat the case where the sample observations follow possibly non-uniform distributions. As a consequence of our theorems, we provide uniform limit laws for nearest-neighbor density estimators, in the spirit of those given by Deheuvels and Mason (13) for kernel-type estimators.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2007-11-28 08:43:41 - Bahadur--Kiefer theory for sample quantiles of weakly dependent linear processes</summary>

- *Rafał Kulik*

- `0605282v2` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0605282v2) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0605282v2)

> In this paper, we establish the Bahadur--Kiefer representation for sample quantiles for a class of weakly dependent linear processes. The rate of approximation is the same as for i.i.d. sequences and is thus optimal.

</details>

