# 2008

## TOC

- [2008-02](#2008-02)
- [2008-03](#2008-03)
- [2008-05](#2008-05)
- [2008-06](#2008-06)
- [2008-09](#2008-09)
- [2008-10](#2008-10)
- [2008-11](#2008-11)
- [2008-12](#2008-12)

## 2008-02

<details>

<summary>2008-02-04 15:17:34 - A regional Bayesian POT model for flood frequency analysis</summary>

- *Mathieu Ribatet, Eric Sauquet, Jean-Michel Grésillon, Taha B. M. J. Ouarda*

- `0802.0433v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0433v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0802.0433v1)

> Flood frequency analysis is usually based on the fitting of an extreme value distribution to the local streamflow series. However, when the local data series is short, frequency analysis results become unreliable. Regional frequency analysis is a convenient way to reduce the estimation uncertainty. In this work, we propose a regional Bayesian model for short record length sites. This model is less restrictive than the index flood model while preserving the formalism of "homogeneous regions". The performance of the proposed model is assessed on a set of gauging stations in France. The accuracy of quantile estimates as a function of the degree of homogeneity of the pooling group is also analysed. The results indicate that the regional Bayesian model outperforms the index flood model and local estimators. Furthermore, it seems that working with relatively large and homogeneous regions may lead to more accurate results than working with smaller and highly homogeneous regions.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2008-02-04 15:21:26 - Modeling All Exceedances Above a Threshold Using an Extremal Dependence Structure: Inferences on Several Flood Characteristics</summary>

- *Mathieu Ribatet, Taha B. M. J. Ouarda, Eric Sauquet, Jean-Michel Grésillon*

- `0802.0436v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.0436v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0802.0436v1)

> Flood quantile estimation is of great importance for many engineering studies and policy decisions. However, practitioners must often deal with small data available. Thus, the information must be used optimally. In the last decades, to reduce the waste of data, inferential methodology has evolved from annual maxima modeling to peaks over a threshold one. To mitigate the lack of data, peaks over a threshold are sometimes combined with additional information - mostly regional and historical information. However, whatever the extra information is, the most precious information for the practitioner is found at the target site. In this study, a model that allows inferences on the whole time series is introduced. In particular, the proposed model takes into account the dependence between successive extreme observations using an appropriate extremal dependence structure. Results show that this model leads to more accurate flood peak quantile estimates than conventional estimators. In addition, as the time dependence is taken into account, inferences on other flood characteristics can be performed. An illustration is given on flood duration. Our analysis shows that the accuracy of the proposed models to estimate the flood duration is related to specific catchment characteristics. Some suggestions to increase the flood duration predictions are introduced.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2008-02-07 17:31:58 - Reduction principles for quantile and Bahadur-Kiefer processes of long-range dependent linear sequences</summary>

- *Miklós Csörgő, Rafal Kulik*

- `0802.1025v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.1025v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0802.1025v1)

> In this paper we consider quantile and Bahadur-Kiefer processes for long range dependent linear sequences. These processes, unlike in previous studies, are considered on the whole interval $(0,1)$. As it is well-known, quantile processes can have very erratic behavior on the tails. We overcome this problem by considering these processes with appropriate weight functions. In this way we conclude strong approximations that yield some remarkable phenomena that are not shared with i.i.d. sequences, including weak convergence of the Bahadur-Kiefer processes, a different pointwise behavior of the general and uniform Bahadur-Kiefer processes, and a somewhat "strange" behavior of the general quantile process.

</details>


## 2008-03

<details>

<summary>2008-03-14 13:47:07 - Statistics of extremes under random censoring</summary>

- *John H. J. Einmahl, Amélie Fils-Villetard, Armelle Guillou*

- `0803.2162v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2162v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0803.2162v1)

> We investigate the estimation of the extreme value index when the data are subject to random censorship. We prove, in a unified way, detailed asymptotic normality results for various estimators of the extreme value index and use these estimators as the main building block for estimators of extreme quantiles. We illustrate the quality of these methods by a small simulation study and apply the estimators to medical data.

</details>


## 2008-05

<details>

<summary>2008-05-20 13:12:22 - On predictive probability matching priors</summary>

- *Trevor J. Sweeting*

- `0805.3073v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3073v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0805.3073v1)

> We revisit the question of priors that achieve approximate matching of Bayesian and frequentist predictive probabilities. Such priors may be thought of as providing frequentist calibration of Bayesian prediction or simply as devices for producing frequentist prediction regions. Here we analyse the $O(n^{-1})$ term in the expansion of the coverage probability of a Bayesian prediction region, as derived in [Ann. Statist. 28 (2000) 1414--1426]. Unlike the situation for parametric matching, asymptotic predictive matching priors may depend on the level $\alpha$. We investigate uniformly predictive matching priors (UPMPs); that is, priors for which this $O(n^{-1})$ term is zero for all $\alpha$. It was shown in [Ann. Statist. 28 (2000) 1414--1426] that, in the case of quantile matching and a scalar parameter, if such a prior exists then it must be Jeffreys' prior. In the present article we investigate UPMPs in the multiparameter case and present some general results about the form, and uniqueness or otherwise, of UPMPs for both quantile and highest predictive density matching.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2008-05-21 06:12:13 - Data-dependent probability matching priors for empirical and related likelihoods</summary>

- *Rahul Mukerjee*

- `0805.3203v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3203v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0805.3203v1)

> We consider a general class of empirical-type likelihoods and develop higher order asymptotics with a view to characterizing members thereof that allow the existence of possibly data-dependent probability matching priors ensuring approximate frequentist validity of posterior quantiles. In particular, for the usual empirical likelihood, positive results are obtained. This is in contrast with what happens if only data-free priors are entertained.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2008-05-21 06:34:24 - Probability matching priors for some parameters of the bivariate normal distribution</summary>

- *Malay Ghosh, Upasana Santra, Dalho Kim*

- `0805.3204v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0805.3204v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0805.3204v1)

> This paper develops some objective priors for certain parameters of the bivariate normal distribution. The parameters considered are the regression coefficient, the generalized variance, and the ratio of the conditional variance of one variable given the other to the marginal variance of the other variable. The criterion used is the asymptotic matching of coverage probabilities of Bayesian credible intervals with the corresponding frequentist coverage probabilities. The paper uses various matching criteria, namely, quantile matching, matching of distribution functions, highest posterior density matching, and matching via inversion of test statistics. One particular prior is found which meets all the matching criteria individually for all the parameters of interest.

</details>


## 2008-06

<details>

<summary>2008-06-12 11:44:16 - A quantile-copula approach to conditional density estimation</summary>

- *Olivier P. Faugeras*

- `0709.3192v3` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0709.3192v3) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0709.3192v3)

> We present a new non-parametric estimator of the conditional density of the kernel type. It is based on an efficient transformation of the data by quantile transform. By use of the copula representation, it turns out to have a remarkable product form. We study its asymptotic properties and compare its bias and variance to competitors based on nonparametric regression.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2008-06-18 06:39:02 - Composite quantile regression and the oracle Model Selection Theory</summary>

- *Hui Zou, Ming Yuan*

- `0806.2905v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0806.2905v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0806.2905v1)

> Coefficient estimation and variable selection in multiple linear regression is routinely done in the (penalized) least squares (LS) framework. The concept of model selection oracle introduced by Fan and Li [J. Amer. Statist. Assoc. 96 (2001) 1348--1360] characterizes the optimal behavior of a model selection procedure. However, the least-squares oracle theory breaks down if the error variance is infinite. In the current paper we propose a new regression method called composite quantile regression (CQR). We show that the oracle model selection theory using the CQR oracle works beautifully even when the error variance is infinite. We develop a new oracular procedure to achieve the optimal properties of the CQR oracle. When the error variance is finite, CQR still enjoys great advantages in terms of estimation efficiency. We show that the relative efficiency of CQR compared to the least squares is greater than 70% regardless the error distribution. Moreover, CQR could be much more efficient and sometimes arbitrarily more efficient than the least squares. The same conclusions hold when comparing a CQR-oracular estimator with a LS-oracular estimator.

</details>


## 2008-09

<details>

<summary>2008-09-24 13:21:45 - Quantile Estimation of A general Single-Index Model</summary>

- *Efang Kong, Yingcun Xia*

- `0803.2474v4` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0803.2474v4) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0803.2474v4)

> The single-index model is one of the most popular semiparametric models in Econometrics. In this paper, we define a quantile regression single-index model, which includes the single-index structure for conditional mean and for conditional variance.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2008-09-30 14:38:17 - Bahadur representation of sample quantiles for functional of Gaussian dependent sequences under a minimal assumption</summary>

- *Jean-François Coeurjolly*

- `0702440v2` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0702440v2) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0702440v2)

> We obtain a Bahadur representation for sample quantiles of nonlinear functional of Gaussian sequences with correlation function decreasing as $k^{-\alpha}$ for some $\alpha > 0$. This representation is derived under a mimimal assumption.

</details>


## 2008-10

<details>

<summary>2008-10-07 11:10:40 - A strong uniform convergence rate of a kernel conditional quantile estimator under random left-truncation and dependent data</summary>

- *Elias Ould-Saïd, Djabrane Yahia, Abdelhakim Necir*

- `0810.1156v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.1156v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0810.1156v1)

> In this paper we study some asymptotic properties of the kernel conditional quantile estimator with randomly left-truncated data which exhibit some kind of dependence. We extend the result obtained by Lemdani, Ould-Sa\"id and Poulin [16] in the iid case. The uniform strong convergence rate of the estimator under strong mixing hypothesis is obtained.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2008-10-23 09:04:56 - Smoothed weighted empirical likelihood ratio confidence intervals for quantiles</summary>

- *Jian-Jian Ren*

- `0810.4238v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4238v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0810.4238v1)

> Thus far, likelihood-based interval estimates for quantiles have not been studied in the literature on interval censored case 2 data and partly interval censored data, and, in this context, the use of smoothing has not been considered for any type of censored data. This article constructs smoothed weighted empirical likelihood ratio confidence intervals (WELRCI) for quantiles in a unified framework for various types of censored data, including right censored data, doubly censored data, interval censored data and partly interval censored data. The fourth order expansion of the weighted empirical log-likelihood ratio is derived and the theoretical coverage accuracy equation for the proposed WELRCI is established, which generally guarantees at least `first order' accuracy. In particular, for right censored data, we show that the coverage accuracy is at least $O(n^{-1/2})$ and our simulation studies show that in comparison with empirical likelihood-based methods, the smoothing used in WELRCI generally provides a shorter confidence interval with comparable coverage accuracy. For interval censored data, it is interesting to find that with an adjusted rate $n^{-1/3}$, the weighted empirical log-likelihood ratio has an asymptotic distribution completely different from that obtained by the empirical likelihood approach and the resulting WELRCI perform favorably in the available comparison simulation studies.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2008-10-27 12:30:43 - Robust nonparametric estimation via wavelet median regression</summary>

- *Lawrence D. Brown, T. Tony Cai, Harrison H. Zhou*

- `0810.4802v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4802v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0810.4802v1)

> In this paper we develop a nonparametric regression method that is simultaneously adaptive over a wide range of function classes for the regression function and robust over a large collection of error distributions, including those that are heavy-tailed, and may not even possess variances or means. Our approach is to first use local medians to turn the problem of nonparametric regression with unknown noise distribution into a standard Gaussian regression problem and then apply a wavelet block thresholding procedure to construct an estimator of the regression function. It is shown that the estimator simultaneously attains the optimal rate of convergence over a wide range of the Besov classes, without prior knowledge of the smoothness of the underlying functions or prior knowledge of the error distribution. The estimator also automatically adapts to the local smoothness of the underlying function, and attains the local adaptive minimax rate for estimating functions at a point. A key technical result in our development is a quantile coupling theorem which gives a tight bound for the quantile coupling between the sample medians and a normal variable. This median coupling inequality may be of independent interest.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2008-10-27 14:27:52 - Estimation of distributions, moments and quantiles in deconvolution problems</summary>

- *Peter Hall, Soumendra N. Lahiri*

- `0810.4821v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0810.4821v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0810.4821v1)

> When using the bootstrap in the presence of measurement error, we must first estimate the target distribution function; we cannot directly resample, since we do not have a sample from the target. These and other considerations motivate the development of estimators of distributions, and of related quantities such as moments and quantiles, in errors-in-variables settings. We show that such estimators have curious and unexpected properties. For example, if the distributions of the variable of interest, $W$, say, and of the observation error are both centered at zero, then the rate of convergence of an estimator of the distribution function of $W$ can be slower at the origin than away from the origin. This is an intrinsic characteristic of the problem, not a quirk of particular estimators; the property holds true for optimal estimators.

</details>


## 2008-11

<details>

<summary>2008-11-17 07:12:34 - Estimation of bivariate excess probabilities for elliptical models</summary>

- *Belkacem Abdous, Anne-Laure Fougères, Kilani Ghoudi, Philippe Soulier*

- `0611914v4` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0611914v4) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0611914v4)

> Let $(X,Y)$ be a random vector whose conditional excess probability $\theta(x,y):=P(Y\leq y | X>x)$ is of interest. Estimating this kind of probability is a delicate problem as soon as $x$ tends to be large, since the conditioning event becomes an extreme set. Assume that $(X,Y)$ is elliptically distributed, with a rapidly varying radial component. In this paper, three statistical procedures are proposed to estimate $\theta(x,y)$ for fixed $x,y$, with $x$ large. They respectively make use of an approximation result of Abdous et al. (cf. Canad. J. Statist. 33 (2005) 317--334, Theorem 1), a new second order refinement of Abdous et al.'s Theorem 1, and a non-approximating method. The estimation of the conditional quantile function $\theta(x,\cdot)^{\leftarrow}$ for large fixed $x$ is also addressed and these methods are compared via simulations. An illustration in the financial context is also given.

</details>


## 2008-12

<details>

<summary>2008-12-16 12:04:40 - Strong Gaussian approximations of product-limit and Quantile Processes for Strong mixing and censored data</summary>

- *V. Fakoor, N. Nakhaee Rad*

- `0812.3038v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0812.3038v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0812.3038v1)

> In this paper, we consider the product-limit quantile estimator of an unknown quantile function under a censored dependent model. This is a parallel problem to the estimation of the unknown distribution function by the product-limit estimator under the same model. Simultaneous strong Gaussian approximations of the product-limit process and product-limit quantile process are constructed with rate $O((\log n)^{-\lambda})$ for some $\lambda>0,$. The strong Gaussian approximation of the product-limit process is then applied to derive the laws of the iterated logarithm for product-limit process.

</details>

