# 2009

## TOC

- [2009-01](#2009-01)
- [2009-02](#2009-02)
- [2009-03](#2009-03)
- [2009-04](#2009-04)
- [2009-05](#2009-05)
- [2009-06](#2009-06)
- [2009-08](#2009-08)
- [2009-11](#2009-11)
- [2009-12](#2009-12)

## 2009-01

<details>

<summary>2009-01-27 12:56:56 - Controlled stratification for quantile estimation</summary>

- *Claire Cannamela, Josselin Garnier, Bertrand Iooss*

- `0802.2426v2` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0802.2426v2) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0802.2426v2)

> In this paper we propose and discuss variance reduction techniques for the estimation of quantiles of the output of a complex model with random input parameters. These techniques are based on the use of a reduced model, such as a metamodel or a response surface. The reduced model can be used as a control variate; or a rejection method can be implemented to sample the realizations of the input parameters in prescribed relevant strata; or the reduced model can be used to determine a good biased distribution of the input parameters for the implementation of an importance sampling strategy. The different strategies are analyzed and the asymptotic variances are computed, which shows the benefit of an adaptive controlled stratification method. This method is finally applied to a real example (computation of the peak cladding temperature during a large-break loss of coolant accident in a nuclear reactor).

</details>


## 2009-02

<details>

<summary>2009-02-25 16:16:17 - Quantile pyramids for Bayesian nonparametrics</summary>

- *Nils Lid Hjort, Stephen G. Walker*

- `0902.4410v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0902.4410v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0902.4410v1)

> P\'{o}lya trees fix partitions and use random probabilities in order to construct random probability measures. With quantile pyramids we instead fix probabilities and use random partitions. For nonparametric Bayesian inference we use a prior which supports piecewise linear quantile functions, based on the need to work with a finite set of partitions, yet we show that the limiting version of the prior exists. We also discuss and investigate an alternative model based on the so-called substitute likelihood. Both approaches factorize in a convenient way leading to relatively straightforward analysis via MCMC, since analytic summaries of posterior distributions are too complicated. We give conditions securing the existence of an absolute continuous quantile process, and discuss consistency and approximate normality for the sequence of posterior distributions. Illustrations are included.

</details>


## 2009-03

<details>

<summary>2009-03-25 16:27:46 - Expansions for Quantiles and Multivariate Moments of Extremes for Distributions of Pareto Type</summary>

- *Saralees Nadarajah, Christopher S. Withers*

- `0903.4391v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0903.4391v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0903.4391v1)

> Let $X_{nr}$ be the $r$th largest of a random sample of size $n$ from a distribution $F (x) = 1 - \sum_{i = 0}^\infty c_i x^{-\alpha - i \beta}$ for $\alpha > 0$ and $\beta > 0$. An inversion theorem is proved and used to derive an expansion for the quantile $F^{-1} (u)$ and powers of it. From this an expansion in powers of $(n^{-1}, n^{-\beta/\alpha})$ is given for the multivariate moments of the extremes $\{X_{n, n - s_i}, 1 \leq i \leq k \}/n^{1/\alpha}$ for fixed ${\bf s} = (s_1, ..., s_k)$, where $k \geq 1$. Examples include the Cauchy, Student $t$, $F$, second extreme distributions and stable laws of index $\alpha < 1$.

</details>


## 2009-04

<details>

<summary>2009-04-01 07:25:51 - Inference for censored quantile regression models in longitudinal studies</summary>

- *Huixia Judy Wang, Mendel Fygenson*

- `0904.0080v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0080v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0904.0080v1)

> We develop inference procedures for longitudinal data where some of the measurements are censored by fixed constants. We consider a semi-parametric quantile regression model that makes no distributional assumptions. Our research is motivated by the lack of proper inference procedures for data from biomedical studies where measurements are censored due to a fixed quantification limit. In such studies the focus is often on testing hypotheses about treatment equality. To this end, we propose a rank score test for large sample inference on a subset of the covariates. We demonstrate the importance of accounting for both censoring and intra-subject dependency and evaluate the performance of our proposed methodology in a simulation study. We then apply the proposed inference procedures to data from an AIDS-related clinical trial. We conclude that our framework and proposed methodology is very valuable for differentiating the influences of predictors at different locations in the conditional distribution of a response variable.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2009-04-03 10:15:49 - Pointwise adaptive estimation for robust and quantile regression</summary>

- *Markus Reiss, Yves Rozenholc, Charles-Andre Cuenod*

- `0904.0543v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0904.0543v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0904.0543v1)

> A nonparametric procedure for robust regression estimation and for quantile regression is proposed which is completely data-driven and adapts locally to the regularity of the regression function. This is achieved by considering in each point M-estimators over different local neighbourhoods and by a local model selection procedure based on sequential testing. Non-asymptotic risk bounds are obtained, which yield rate-optimality for large sample asymptotics under weak conditions. Simulations for different univariate median regression models show good finite sample properties, also in comparison to traditional methods. The approach is extended to image denoising and applied to CT scans in cancer research.

</details>


## 2009-05

<details>

<summary>2009-05-12 22:58:13 - Extremal dependence analysis of network sessions</summary>

- *Luis Lopez-Oliveros, Sidney I. Resnick*

- `0905.1983v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0905.1983v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0905.1983v1)

> We refine a stimulating study by Sarvotham et al. [2005] which highlighted the influence of peak transmission rate on network burstiness. From TCP packet headers, we amalgamate packets into sessions where each session is characterized by a 5-tuple (S, D, R, Peak R, Initiation T)=(total payload, duration, average transmission rate, peak transmission rate, initiation time). After careful consideration, a new definition of peak rate is required. Unlike Sarvotham et al. [2005] who segmented sessions into two groups labelled alpha and beta, we segment into 10 sessions according to the empirical quantiles of the peak rate variable as a demonstration that the beta group is far from homogeneous. Our more refined segmentation reveals additional structure that is missed by segmentation into two groups. In each segment, we study the dependence structure of (S, D, R) and find that it varies across the groups. Furthermore, within each segment, session initiation times are well approximated by a Poisson process whereas this property does not hold for the data set taken as a whole. Therefore, we conclude that the peak rate level is important for understanding structure and for constructing accurate simulations of data in the wild. We outline a simple method of simulating network traffic based on our findings.

</details>


## 2009-06

<details>

<summary>2009-06-06 11:33:53 - U-Quantile-Statistics</summary>

- *Michael Mayer*

- `0906.1266v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0906.1266v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0906.1266v1)

> In 1948, W. Hoeffding introduced a large class of unbiased estimators called U-statistics, defined as the average value of a real-valued m-variate function h calculated at all possible sets of m points from a random sample. In the present paper, we investigate the corresponding robust analogue which we call U-quantile-statistics. We are concerned with the asymptotic behavior of the sample p-quantile of such function h instead of its average. Alternatively, U-quantile-statistics can be viewed as quantile estimators for a certain class of dependent random variables. Examples are given by a slightly modified Hodges-Lehmann estimator of location and the median interpoint distance among random points in space.

</details>


## 2009-08

<details>

<summary>2009-08-25 09:22:03 - Local linear quantile estimation for nonstationary time series</summary>

- *Zhou Zhou, Wei Biao Wu*

- `0908.3576v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3576v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0908.3576v1)

> We consider estimation of quantile curves for a general class of nonstationary processes. Consistency and central limit results are obtained for local linear quantile estimates under a mild short-range dependence condition. Our results are applied to environmental data sets. In particular, our results can be used to address the problem of whether climate variability has changed, an important problem raised by IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) in 2001.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2009-08-29 12:08:00 - One and two side generalisations of the log-Normal distribution by means of a new product definition</summary>

- *Silvio M. Duarte Queiros*

- `0908.4334v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.4334v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0908.4334v1)

> In this manuscript we introduce a generalisation of the log-Normal distribution that is inspired by a modification of the Kaypten multiplicative process using the $q$-product of Borges [Physica A \textbf{340}, 95 (2004)]. Depending on the value of q the distribution increases the tail for small (when $q<1$) or large (when $q>1$) values of the variable upon analysis. The usual log-Normal distribution is retrieved when $q=1$. The main statistical features of this distribution are presented as well as a related random number generators and tables of quantiles of the Kolmogorov-Smirnov. Lastly, we illustrate the application of this distribution studying the adjustment of a set of variables of biological and financial origin.

</details>


## 2009-11

<details>

<summary>2009-11-18 10:45:44 - Quantile regression in partially linear varying coefficient models</summary>

- *Huixia Judy Wang, Zhongyi Zhu, Jianhui Zhou*

- `0911.3501v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.3501v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0911.3501v1)

> Semiparametric models are often considered for analyzing longitudinal data for a good balance between flexibility and parsimony. In this paper, we study a class of marginal partially linear quantile models with possibly varying coefficients. The functional coefficients are estimated by basis function approximations. The estimation procedure is easy to implement, and it requires no specification of the error distributions. The asymptotic properties of the proposed estimators are established for the varying coefficients as well as for the constant coefficients. We develop rank score tests for hypotheses on the coefficients, including the hypotheses on the constancy of a subset of the varying coefficients. Hypothesis testing of this type is theoretically challenging, as the dimensions of the parameter spaces under both the null and the alternative hypotheses are growing with the sample size. We assess the finite sample performance of the proposed method by Monte Carlo simulation studies, and demonstrate its value by the analysis of an AIDS data set, where the modeling of quantiles provides more comprehensive information than the usual least squares approach.

</details>

<details>

<summary>2009-11-20 14:56:30 - Efficient estimation of copula-based semiparametric Markov models</summary>

- *Xiaohong Chen, Wei Biao Wu, Yanping Yi*

- `0901.0751v4` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0901.0751v4) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0901.0751v4)

> This paper considers the efficient estimation of copula-based semiparametric strictly stationary Markov models. These models are characterized by nonparametric invariant (one-dimensional marginal) distributions and parametric bivariate copula functions where the copulas capture temporal dependence and tail dependence of the processes. The Markov processes generated via tail dependent copulas may look highly persistent and are useful for financial and economic applications. We first show that Markov processes generated via Clayton, Gumbel and Student's $t$ copulas and their survival copulas are all geometrically ergodic. We then propose a sieve maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) for the copula parameter, the invariant distribution and the conditional quantiles. We show that the sieve MLEs of any smooth functional is root-$n$ consistent, asymptotically normal and efficient and that their sieve likelihood ratio statistics are asymptotically chi-square distributed. Monte Carlo studies indicate that, even for Markov models generated via tail dependent copulas and fat-tailed marginals, our sieve MLEs perform very well.

</details>


## 2009-12

<details>

<summary>2009-12-26 12:57:29 - Inference for Extremal Conditional Quantile Models, with an Application to Market and Birthweight Risks</summary>

- *Victor Chernozhukov, Ivan Fernandez-Val*

- `0912.5013v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0912.5013v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/0912.5013v1)

> Quantile regression is an increasingly important empirical tool in economics and other sciences for analyzing the impact of a set of regressors on the conditional distribution of an outcome. Extremal quantile regression, or quantile regression applied to the tails, is of interest in many economic and financial applications, such as conditional value-at-risk, production efficiency, and adjustment bands in (S,s) models. In this paper we provide feasible inference tools for extremal conditional quantile models that rely upon extreme value approximations to the distribution of self-normalized quantile regression statistics. The methods are simple to implement and can be of independent interest even in the non-regression case. We illustrate the results with two empirical examples analyzing extreme fluctuations of a stock return and extremely low percentiles of live infants' birthweights in the range between 250 and 1500 grams.

</details>

