# 2003

## TOC

- [2003-06](#2003-06)
- [2003-10](#2003-10)

## 2003-06

<details>

<summary>2003-06-23 11:18:30 - Chernoff's bound forms</summary>

- *M. Grendar, Jr., M. Grendar*

- `0306326v1` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0306326v1) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0306326v1)

> Chernoff's bound binds a tail probability (ie. $Pr(X \ge a)$, where $a \ge EX$). Assuming that the distribution of $X$ is $Q$, the logarithm of the bound is known to be equal to the value of relative entropy (or minus Kullback-Leibler distance) for $I$-projection $\hat P$ of $Q$ on a set $\mathcal{H} \triangleq \{P: E_PX = a\}$. Here, Chernoff's bound is related to Maximum Likelihood on exponential form and consequently implications for the notion of complementarity are discussed. Moreover, a novel form of the bound is proposed, which expresses the value of the Chernoff's bound directly in terms of the $I$-projection (or generalized $I$-projection).

</details>


## 2003-10

<details>

<summary>2003-10-09 23:14:00 - The marginalization paradox does not imply inconsistency for improper priors</summary>

- *Timothy C. Wallstrom*

- `0310006v3` - [abs](http://arxiv.org/abs/0310006v3) - [pdf](http://arxiv.org/pdf/math/0310006v3)

> The marginalization paradox involves a disagreement between two Bayesians who use two different procedures for calculating a posterior in the presence of an improper prior. We show that the argument used to justify the procedure of one of the Bayesians is inapplicable. There is therefore no reason to expect agreement, no paradox, and no evidence that improper priors are inherently inconsistent. We show further that the procedure in question can be interpreted as the cancellation of infinities in the formal posterior. We suggest that the implicit use of this formal procedure is the source of the observed disagreement.

</details>

